---
layout: post
title: Supply Chain Management and Analytics
date: 2025-02-02 11:18 +0800
tags: [supply-chain]
toc:  true
---

<!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics -->
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-TG0XJZG53F"></script>
<script>
    window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
    function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
    gtag('js', new Date());

    gtag('config', 'G-TG0XJZG53F');
</script>

**Course Description**
In the Supply Chain Management and Analytics course, you’ll learn the foundations of supply chain management and how the Supply Chain Analyst role has an impact on the entire supply chain including making smarter, quicker, and more efficient decisions. You’ll focus on the supply chain process, how to use analytics to identify potential opportunities in all aspects of the supply chain, and how to monitor supply chain security risks to help minimize their impact on the entire supply chain. Additionally, you’ll explore the future of supply chain and how it's impacted by security and sustainability.

By the end of this course, you’ll be able to:
Describe the supply chain components and their importance.
Describe the Supply Chain Analyst role and its impact to the entire supply chain in making smarter, quicker and more efficient decisions.
Recognize how to use analytics to identify potential opportunities on all aspects of the supply chain ensuring cost and resource efficiencies and continual growth.
Use data and the current status of expenses and profitability to understand the financial impact of operations, overall spend, procurement, savings realization, and future outlook.
Monitor supply chain security risks and their impact and adjust overall planning and scheduling accordingly.
Describe the role of the Supply Chain Analysts to assist in meeting sustainability goals.

---

## Supply chain management fundamentals

In this module, you will learn the entire supply chain management process and the key partners involved. You will also learn the history of supply chain and big events that can have an impact on customer value and you will get to take a look into future trends and technology that may impact the future of supply chain management.


#### Welcome to supply chain management

Take a moment to imagine that you're shopping at your favorite retail store and find the perfect t-shirt. You buy it, bring it home, and it becomes a favorite part of your wardrobe. Now take a moment to think about everything that makes that shirt available to you, such as the manufacturer purchasing and receiving all the materials to make it and then producing the shirt. The manufacturer then sending the shirt to the retail company and the company shipping it to the store you shop at. Your retail store, receiving, stocking and adding the shirt to their inventory and finally you purchasing it. Wow, that's a lot of work for the t-shirt of your dreams. Welcome to the supply chain data analyst certificate. If you consider the one experience you just imagined and apply it on a global scale. I'm sure you won't be surprised that the world's supply chain market is projected to have double digit compound annual growth for the foreseeable future. So if you want to piece of this action, you're in the right place.

This four course program is designed to prepare you for a job in the exciting world of supply chain management. With the help of industry experts, you'll take a deep dive into the world of supply chain analytics, tools, models and software. With real world hands-on activities and proven methodologies, you'll have lots of practice planning, analyzing and monitoring supply chain distribution that can help you make sure products make it to their destinations in a timely, cost effective way. So let's take a closer look at what you'll be learning. in the supply chain management and analytics course, you'll be introduced to supply chain fundamentals and discover the importance of analytics, inventory control, and demand planning and scheduling. You'll get to know more about supply chain finance and logistics too, as well as some sustainability best practices. And all of this will be focused on the supply chain analyst's role. The using data analytics in supply chain course is all about gathering and analyzing the right data.

You'll start out by realizing what data analytics entails and why data governance is so important. Then you'll find out where to get quality data and what tools you can use to analyze it. You'll need to have a solid foundation for your data analysis, so you'll learn how to develop smart objectives and prepare your data so you can effectively validate and interpret it. How about some interesting ways to visualize the data? You'll practice building several types of visualizations and then learn how to best build a story around the data and present it to stakeholders. Next is the implementing supply chain analytics, descriptive diagnostic, predictive and prescriptive course. You'll learn to practice applying the four levels of data analytics as well as different analytical methods, models and tools. All of these will help you understand the current state of the supply chain and lead you to insightful, decision making and solutions. Then you'll be introduced to some programming languages such as Python and SQL and see how they can help you manage, clean, summarize and manipulate data. You'll finish up the certificate with the supply chain software tools course. You'll be introduced to emerging trends in supply chain and data analytics, plus the software and technologies that can help manage large amounts of data. Then off to the future, which is already here with a focus on artificial intelligence and how it's used in supply chain analytics. Of course, one of the main reasons you're here is to get a job or advance your career in supply chain analytics. So you'll learn how to build a strong profile and resume research and apply to jobs and prepare for a job interview. Throughout the certificate, you'll have several opportunities to work on a case study that gives you lots of hands-on practice, applying these new skills to realistic data for a fictitious company.

In many of the activities, you'll be using spreadsheets to review, analyze and prepare data. You can use Google Sheets or Microsoft Excel for these. You'll also be creating slide presentations, which you can create in either Google slides or Microsoft PowerPoint. If you have other tools you'd like to use, such as SQL, Python, Tableau or Power BI, you're more than welcome to use those too. So that's what will be happening, are you as excited as I am to get started? Well then, away we go.

#### Supply chain data analyst professional certificate syllabus

You will complete four courses in this certificate:

* **_Supply Chain Management and Analytics:_** In this course, you’ll learn the foundations of supply chain management and how the Supply Chain Analyst role has an impact on the entire supply chain in making smarter, quicker, and more efficient decisions. You’ll focus on the supply chain process, how to use analytics to identify potential opportunities in all aspects of the supply chain, and how to monitor supply chain security risks to help minimize their impact on the entire supply chain. You’ll also peek into the future of supply chain and how it's impacted by security and sustainability.

* **_Using Data Analytics in Supply Chain:_** In this course, you’ll learn about data and why data governance is important. You’ll also focus on the tools and processes used in supply chain analytics to gather, analyze, synthesize, validate, and interpret insights—all with the intent of monitoring a company’s supply chain distribution to ensure products make it to their destinations in a timely, cost-efficient manner.

* **_Implementing Supply Chain Analytics:_** Descriptive, Diagnostic, Predictive and Prescriptive: In this course, you’ll discover how implementing analytical methods, models, and tools helps decision-making become more efficient. You’ll focus on using different types of methods, models, and tools, depending on specific business scenarios or needs, to help you analyze the current state of the supply chain and to lead you to insightful solutions. You’ll also see how to use supply chain models to evaluate and question the data to optimize the flow of goods, information, and cost in a supply chain to help identify potential improvements, determine the most efficient or practical course of action, and to communicate the impact to the customer.

* **_Supply Chain Software Tools:_** In this course, you’ll learn about the challenges with the large amounts of data used in supply chain analytics and how to effectively gather, analyze, and use the data. You’ll discover advanced technology solutions that can optimize supply chain performance, and you’ll learn about emerging trends in supply chain management (such as artificial intelligence) that are allowing large amounts of data to be processed and summarized instantly. You’ll also prepare for a job as a supply chain analyst by building your resume and profile, learning how to market yourself, and learning how to research and apply to jobs.

#### Introduction to supply chain management and analytics

Hi! Now that you've been introduced to the Supply Chain Data Analyst Professional Certificate, let's take a peek at what you'll learn in this course. We'll begin with an introduction to the supply chain process and the key partners involved. Then you'll look into the past with a brief history lesson and look into the future by discovering trends and technology that are already impacting supply chain.

In the next module, you'll be introduced to the importance and benefits of supply chain analytics. We'll focus on how to align business needs with overall inventory, forecasting, scheduling, and planning strategies. Next up, you'll be introduced to how analytics help with demand planning, scheduling, and manufacturing. We'll talk about challenges and risks for each, as well as common strategies supply chain analysts use to provide insightful information that helps management make decisions. You'll also discover tools, technology, and automation used in these areas.

In the next module, you will focus on how analytics assist with finance and logistics. We'll see the different costs that need to be monitored and controlled and tools that help with that. Then we'll talk about transportation and warehouse basics, including how to evaluate options to ensure on time delivery and meet customer expectations. And finally, you'll focus on the importance of physical and cybersecurity in supply chain. We'll talk about the importance of monitoring security risks and how to perform a risk assessment.

You'll also learn the impact of the supply chain network on an organization's sustainability goals, and we'll focus on how to use data and analytics to create or participate in sustainability process improvement initiatives for supply chain networks. Throughout the course, the primary focus will be on YOU... the supply chain analyst... and your role in all these areas. By the end of the course, you'll have a great introduction to the responsibilities and endless opportunities in the world of supply chain analytics. Are you excited to learn more? Let's do it!


#### Introduction to supply chain management

I would like to start by telling you a story about the exciting journey of Sarah and the Widget. Once upon a time in the world of supply chain, a renowned manufacturer called Techy Time Gadgets has been hard at work to develop a fun, new gaming device called the Widget. They are soooo close to the launch stage and are excited about the possibilities.

Lots of people around the world are also excited to get their hands on the Widget, including Sarah, who works for a large retailer called Entertain Electronics. In her job, Sarah closely monitors market trends and customer demand to ensure her store offers the latest and most sought after products. After conducting market research, she jumps at the opportunity to place an order for the Widget at the moment that Techy Time Gadgets makes it available for order. When Techy Time receives Sarah's order, they consolidate it with all their other orders. By now, they have tried their best to predict demand and have already sourced the necessary components to make the Widget, including micro chips, casings, and screens, from their network of trusted suppliers. When all the components are received Techy Time's skilled manufacturing team assembles the components meticulously, ensuring quality control at each stage. Once the Widget is ready, Techy Time packs and labels the products, preparing them for distribution.

Now it's time for Techy Time's third party logistics provider, Swifty Ship Logistics to manage transportation and warehousing activities. Swifty Ship dispatches a truck to Techy Time Gadgets manufacturing facility, where boxes of the Widget are loaded onto pallets and into the truck for secured transport. The truck transports the pallets to a regional distribution center...... where Swifty Ship Logistics unpacks the products and stores them in a designated area within the warehouse. This distribution center serves as a hub for coordinating the movement of products to different retail locations. Swifty Ship strategically organizes the inventory, optimizing space, and ensuring efficient order fulfillment. They receive order notifications from Techy Time and quickly respond-carefully picking the requested quantity of the Widget from the warehouse shelves. They pack the product into larger shipping boxes, label them, and load the boxes onto a delivery truck bound for Techy Time's customers.... including Sarah's store.

Finally, the day arrives when the Widget graces the shelves of Entertain Electronics. Excited customers flock to the store, eagerly purchasing the highly anticipated device. Sarah's company hits record sales and she offers rave reviews of Techy Time Gadgets' commitment to customer service. Techy Time uses Sarah's order.... and the many other orders they receive.... as historical data that will be used to forecast future demand. And everyone lives happily ever after. So, did you like the story? I hope you see how it demonstrates the intricate dance between several key groups in the supply chain, and the crucial role each plays in bringing products from a concept to tangible manufactured goods that delight customers. Now let's start learning more about these different groups and other supply chain fundamentals!

#### Supply chain network

Now that you have a high level introduction to supply chain management, let's dive into the fascinating world of the supply chain network. By the end of this video, you will be able to define the supply chain network and describe its components. Here's an interesting back for you. Did you know that as of the end of 2022, Unilever spent 43.2 billion Euro on their supply chain, which included partnering with over 52,000 suppliers in 155 countries? Wow, that's quite a network. So when I say supply chain network, what do I mean? It's the interconnected structure of all the organizations, individuals, activities, and resources that are involved in the movement and transformation of products and services from creators to end customers. In other words, it's everyone involved in getting a raw material turned into a product and delivering it to consumers. Let's look closer at the different components of the supply chain network. This includes, suppliers, manufacturers, logistics, and customers who collaborate to ensure the efficient flow of goods and services throughout the entire supply chain process.

To walk through the components, we'll use Unilever as an example. Among other things, they create household cleaning products that are sold on a global scale. Let's start with suppliers who provide the supplies and raw materials, such as the plastic containers, lids, cleaner ingredients, shipping, packaging, and branded product labels needed to create the cleaning products.

Next are the manufacturers like Unilever, who purchase supplies and raw materials from the supplier and then transform them into finished goods for the containers of cleaner. Buyers within the manufacturer's organization interact with the suppliers to ensure the manufacturer has everything they need to fulfill their forecasted demand. Next up, logistics. Without logistics, the cleaning products just sit in Unilever's warehouses, never making it to the customer. So the company needs an efficient logistics system to manage order fulfillment, order processing, warehousing, and transportation while optimizing overall operational cost. They also need to oversee managing returns, also called reverse logistics. Logistics can be part of the organization or outsourced through a third party provider that offers supply chain management services. Effectively managing logistics is important for a company because it can really improve their overall performance, reduce costs, improve customer satisfaction, ensure on time delivery of products, and minimize delays. In turn, this helps a company like Unilever achieve operational excellence, customer satisfaction, and gain a competitive advantage in the very competitive marketplace. And let's not forget about customers.

In our Unilever scenario, a customer may be a company like supermarket, convenience store, or another business that wants to buy the cleaning products to stock on their shelves. These customers work with the manufacturer to place orders and procure the products they need to fulfill their end consumer's demand. As you may imagine, customer demand drives the supply chain by determining the volume and frequency of product orders and influencing everything partners within the supply chain do to meet that demand. Customers are also important because they allow companies to gather feedback, monitor trends, and make informed decisions to optimize their operations.

They are a driving force to the supply chain. For example, Unilever may get consumer feedback that one scent of dish soap is preferred more than another, so they can plan to increase production of one and decrease production of the less popular. This helps a company tailor their production, distribution, and marketing strategies which all help create a great experience for the consumer. And that's what every company strives for, because it leads to trust and long term relationships with a consumer. It's all about understanding their needs and creating products and services that truly resonate with them. So, as you can see, these four components in the supply chain network suppliers, manufacturers, logistics, and customers are all interconnected through communication, information sharing, and the flow of products and materials. And this is not a linear flow from suppliers to customers, it takes collaboration, coordination, and a lot of alignment between all four components to meet demand while maintaining a successful operation model that drives profit. It sure is a complex structure, and you'll learn more about what's involved coming up next.

#### The customer value

In the world of supply chain, there’s one guiding truth: The customer is the compass that guides every strategic move, every tactical decision, and most of the operational choices we make. Let’s look at how to live this truth through effective supply chain management (SCM) and how SCM benefits both the customer and the supply chain organization.

**Customer benefits**

Effective supply chain management (SCM) ensures that customers can get products when and where they need them. How can we achieve effective SCM?

* We can optimize our inventory levels, streamline our production processes, and improve our demand forecasting accuracy to improve product availability for our customers.

* We can optimize customers’ wait time by collaborating and coordinating with our supply chain partners without the need to incur in extra costs to expedite order processing and delivery.

* We can minimize order errors, improve order tracking capabilities, and optimize logistics operations to enhance the order fulfillment experience for customers.

Supply chain management involves quality control processes that ensure product quality and reliability. We can provide support to optimize these processes and practices and to reduce the likelihood of defective or substandard products reaching customers, which has a definite impact on the customer experience.

Throughout the customer’s experience, SCM involves clear communication and real-time visibility, which means providing customers with up-to-the-minute information about available inventory, the status of their orders, and their scheduled delivery times. Allowing customers to track their orders and receive timely updates improves their experience and leads to higher customer satisfaction.

Effective SCM also helps us adapt and respond to changing customer needs and market trends. By leveraging customer insights and having flexible supply chain operations, we’re able to quickly adjust our production, inventory, and distribution strategies to meet these ever-evolving needs.

**Example #1: Alex**

Alex is a big technology fan who recently ordered a new smartphone from TechTrend Electronics. The company’s efficient supply chain management ensured that the smartphone was readily available at the distribution center closest to Alex, and by optimizing inventory levels, TechTrend quickly had Alex's limited edition, neon orange phone ready for dispatch. Alex received timely updates about the phone’s shipping status, and the package arrived exactly when promised. The smooth coordination throughout the supply chain not only delighted Alex with a seamless shopping experience but earned TechTrend lots of referrals from their newest loyal customer.

**Company benefits**

Keeping the customer at the forefront of all supply chain management activities and decisions also offers some substantial benefits to the company.

Having our supply chain activities aligned with our customers’ needs directly translates into higher customer satisfaction and loyalty, as customers receive the products they want, when they want them.

Understanding customers’ preferences also offers organizations several benefits. By closely monitoring these preferences along with customer behaviors, we can make more accurate demand forecasts. This helps us optimize production schedules, inventory levels, and distribution strategies, which leads to cost savings and improved efficiency for the company. Also, by having a clear understanding of what customers want, we can right-size inventory levels. This means excess inventory is minimized, reducing both the costs involved with holding excess inventory and the risk of having inventory become obsolete.

By focusing on and accurately predicting customer demand, we can improve resource allocation. That means our labor, machinery, and materials can be allocated more effectively, which optimizes production processes and reduces waste. When we align our supply chain activities with our actual customer demand, we can also reduce our costs associated with storage, transportation, and production. In the end, this optimization results in cost savings across the entire supply chain.

We always welcome customer feedback; in fact, we encourage it. Accordingly, we need to create the spaces and channels for customer feedback because it can lead to insights on how to innovate and improve our products. By incorporating this feedback into our supply chain decisions, we can develop more personalized products that better align with market needs.

Aligning with customer values and feedback also helps drive our sustainability efforts. If customers prioritize eco-friendly products, we can adjust our sourcing and manufacturing practices to meet these preferences, thereby contributing to environmental goals.

Finally, having this customer-centric approach to all of our supply chain activities fosters stronger relationships with our customers. This relationship-building can lead to repeat business, referrals, and positive word-of-mouth marketing.

**Example #1: Sarah**

Sarah ordered a batch of vitamins from Nature’s Bounty, a health and wellness products manufacturer. She’s a big fan of the company because she knows they have a strict quality control process that ensures the vitamins undergo rigorous testing to minimize the possibility of any substandard products. As her order progressed, Sarah could track her shipment at every step, which provided her with a sense of control and satisfaction even before the product arrived. Later that year, when Sarah's interest shifted towards a new supplement that Nature’s Bounty had just introduced, the company leveraged insights from customers just like Sarah and promptly adjusted their production and distribution strategies to accommodate the increase in demand. Sarah's next order included the new supplement, and she shared her love of the product and company all over social media. Over the next several months, Nature’s Bounty saw an increase in traffic and sales that they were able to link to the organic social media coverage that they’d gotten from Sarah and other excited customers.

**Example #2: Green Grove Farms**

Nigel is a frequent customer of GreenGrove Farms, known for providing delicious and healthy organic produce. As he continued to receive consistently fresh fruits and vegetables, he became even more loyal to the brand. Behind the scenes, GreenGrove closely monitored its customers’ preferences like Nigel’s love of seasonal fruits) and was able to accurately forecast customer demand. They then fine-tuned production schedules, ensuring just-in-time availability of the freshest produce. Nigel’s enthusiastic feedback about a new line of sustainable packaging also spurred innovation at GreenGrove, and they incorporated this packaging for many more products. This move tapped into a growing market demand for sustainability.

**Example #3: Fancy Fashions**

Fancy Fashions, a globally recognized fashion retailer known for its trendy clothing, became popular by offering a wide array of styles, sizes, and colors, catering to different tastes and body types

As Fancy Fashion's popularity rose, they needed to make their supply chain more efficient to increase their speed to market. The supply chain's efficiency allowed the retailer to quickly respond to fashion trends. Through streamlined processes, from design to production, the retailer can swiftly introduce new clothing lines that align with current styles and customer preferences. This agility ensures that customers have access to the latest fashion trends as soon as they hit the market.

The optimized supply chain facilitated sourcing raw materials, manufacturing, and distributing a diverse product range, catering to different tastes and trends their customers preferred.

 Fancy Fashions efficient supply chain streamlined the fulfillment process, ensuring that orders are accurately processed and delivered promptly. Additionally, an easy and hassle-free return process, supported by an optimized reverse logistics system, enhanced customer satisfaction by offering convenience and flexibility.  

Leveraging data analytics and insights from the supply chain, Fancy Fashions can personalize recommendations and engage with customers effectively. Understanding customer preferences and behavior allows for targeted marketing campaigns or personalized product suggestions, increasing customer engagement and satisfaction.

As you can see, by optimizing its supply chain, Fancy Fashions can deliver a seamless and satisfying shopping experience for customers, offering trendy and diverse clothing options, maintaining quality and ethical standards, ensuring efficient delivery and returns, and engaging customers through personalized interactions. These factors collectively add value to the customer experience and contribute to customer loyalty and brand advocacy.

#### Changes and measures for impact prevention

In the chain of events in which materials and products move from suppliers to manufacturers to warehouses and finally to customers, one principle is always true: Expect the unexpected. Whether “the unexpected” is the aftermath of a natural disaster or restrictions imposed by global political turmoil, the supply chain analyst’s role is to ensure that these unexpected events have minimal impact on their company’s supply chain. Let’s discover some key strategies for impact prevention and then see these strategies in action.

Risk assessment and planning: First, analysts are often involved in conducting comprehensive risk assessments to identify potential vulnerabilities and disruptions in the supply chain. This includes evaluating risks related to suppliers, transportation, natural disasters, geopolitical factors, cybersecurity, and more.

To do this, they must understand:

* What can and needs to be avoided, such as minimizing dependence on suppliers that are in an area of geopolitical unrest

* What can and needs to be mitigated, such as planning alternate resourcing if a main supplier is in a high-risk area for natural disasters

During this process, it’s also helpful to create a detailed supply chain map to visualize the entire network. This helps analysts understand the connection points between each partner in the supply chain so they can identify critical points of potential vulnerabilities.  

Then analysts can develop a risk management plan that outlines preventive measures and contingency strategies for different scenarios.

Alternative sourcing: Next, analysts can diversify suppliers and sourcing to reduce dependency on a single supplier or geographic region. This helps mitigate risks associated with supplier disruptions or changes in trade policies. Analysts should continuously explore alternative sourcing options and develop relationships with multiple suppliers at different tiers or layers of the supply chain hierarchy to establish a responsive network such that suitable alternatives can be decided on quickly to minimize potential delays.

Enhanced visibility: To decrease the impact of big events, analysts can also implement systems and technologies that provide visibility into supply chain operations. This might include using advanced analytics and supply chain management software to track inventory, monitor shipments, and identify potential disruptions. With this enhanced visibility, analysts collaborate with their partners in proactive decision-making and rapid response plans to mitigate impact. When these technologies have been implemented, analysts can also be part of the process to ensure that all stakeholders are fully trained and clear on how to identify alerts and courses of action to address them.

Collaboration: Strong relationships and collaboration with supply chain partners is always important, especially during disruptions. Analysts should establish open lines of communication and use collaborative technologies to enhance real-time communication, data sharing, and coordination with suppliers, logistics providers, and customers. They can also work with suppliers to agree on risk management strategies to ensure coordinated actions during a disruption. Analysts can then continuously work to build these partnerships based on trust, transparency, and mutual support—which make a significant difference in how responsive a team can be.

Built-in resilience: Analysts can also work to design supply chains with built-in resilience by creating flexible structures. For example, they can maintain a sufficient amount of stock for potential fluctuations, identify alternative transportation routes, and establish backup manufacturing facilities. These backup plans create resilient supply chains that can better absorb shocks and adapt to unexpected events.

Scenario planning: Conducting scenario planning exercises to anticipate and prepare for potential disruptions also enhances an organization’s ability to prevent the impact of big events. Analysts can simulate various scenarios and evaluate the impact of those scenarios on supply chain operations. This helps identify critical vulnerabilities, test response strategies, and refine contingency plans.

Continuous improvement: Resilient organizations implement continuous improvement methodologies, such as Lean Six Sigma, to streamline processes, eliminate waste, and improve efficiency throughout the supply chain. Applying these methodologies also fosters a culture of adaptability, which enables companies to improve their agility to respond swiftly to disruptions, streamline operations, and maintain resilience in the face of challenges.

Cybersecurity measures: In a world of technological advancements, there’s always a growing chance of cyber threats. Organizations can invest in comprehensive measures to protect supply chain systems and data from these threats. Analysts will work closely with the company’s information technology (IT) and security teams to implement firewalls, encryption, access controls, and regular security audits. They then train their suppliers and partners on data management and cybersecurity best practices to prevent potential breaches and data leaks.

Evaluation and adaptation: Finally, analysts should continuously monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of all these preventive measures and contingency plans. This means regularly updating risk assessments, conducting audits, and incorporating lessons learned from past events to enhance their supply chain’s preparedness. Remember: Supply chains should be adaptable and evolve to meet changing circumstances, so the supply chain team should keep itself up-to-date and trained on new technologies that help mitigate risk.

**Scenario: Strategies in action**

Let’s see how Techy Time Gadgets, a global provider of handheld gaming devices and smart home products, applied these principles to minimize the impact of big events on their supply chain. Techy Time worked hard to manage risk and build their supply chain resilience to handle major disruptions by implementing many of the strategies we just discussed. Then one day, they were faced with an unexpected political event in an area where they normally get many supplies needed for production. This event disrupted trade routes and imposed substantial import restrictions for companies all over the world.

What did Techy Time do?

Drawing from their detailed risk management plans, supply chain analysts were quick to respond. They assessed the vulnerability of their suppliers and identified the potential impacts because of the disruptions. With this insight, they collaborated closely with suppliers to ensure alternative sourcing options were readily available if needed, minimizing the risk of production delays and product shortages.

The company's diversified sourcing strategy also helped. Techy Time was able to pivot quickly when one of their regular suppliers faced challenges due to the import restrictions. With the power of advanced analytics and supply chain management software, analysts predicted this bottleneck and immediately shifted to an alternative supplier. They also adjusted their production schedules to maintain a steady stream of products and meet customer demands.

As events unfolded, Techy Time quickly shared information with their partners, enabling everyone to coordinate strategies to address the disruptions as they happened. Their collaborative technology platforms provided real-time information sharing, so the entire network could adapt to changing circumstances together.

As the event unfolded, Techy Time's scenario planning exercises, constant monitoring, and commitment to learning from past experiences kept them one step ahead. Then, as the event came to a close, Techy Time emerged unscathed and even stronger, showing the remarkable impact of a customer-focused, agile, and resilient supply chain in navigating disruptions from big events.

#### How my role as an analyst impacts the supply chain

As you learn more about the day to day responsibilities of a supply chain analyst, it's worth taking a step back to look at how those responsibilities shape an organization's business. Understanding the point of your role helps give context for the decisions you’ll need to make.

By the end of this video, you'll be able to describe how your role as an analyst impacts the supply chain. Data analysis and process optimization. As part of my day-to-day, I take huge swaths of data, analyze it, find trends and patterns, and use that information to make recommendations for optimization. Just last week, I finished up a project that identified bottlenecks in our transportation processes. Leadership signed off on my team's recommended changes to optimize our routes, which we're estimating will save us 6% in shipping costs. That's the kind of direct impact your work will have on your organization. In my work, I also help design the network structure of the supply chain. This is kind of related to the first point. My team and I evaluate things like facility locations, transportation routes, warehousing strategies, and distribution networks. Then, using modeling and simulations, we're able to figure out an optimal configuration that cuts costs, reduces lead times, and enhances overall responsiveness.

Except when we're done, instead of having a cute picture of a lakeside cottage, we've restructured complex supply chains to make Global Trade more efficient. And there's more, in our job, data is king. We don't just use it for our network, we can also use it to better work with our partners. One example is in supplier management. Earlier this year, our supplier contracts were coming up for renewal, so my team was tasked with evaluating their performance. We analyzed data around responsiveness, cost, and other metrics, and found that some of our suppliers were underperforming. Since then, we've worked with them to improve their performance.

One last thing, let's talk risk management. We supply chain analysts also use the data to identify potential risks, like natural disasters, geopolitical issues, demand fluctuations, or compliance failures. That helps our organizations get ahead of any problems and develop contingency plans to minimize the impact of disruptions.
Play video starting at :3: and follow transcript3:00

#### The supply chain process

Inventory planning, which involves determining the quantities of products available to meet customer demand. In her role, Parvadi analyzes existing production plans, incoming product, promotions, historical data, and customer insights to estimate future demand, and the probability of fulfilling it. Then it's important to manage inventory levels. Parvadi determines optimal stocking levels. Do we have too much? Do we have too little? She also tracks inventory movement both inbound and outbound, and implements inventory replenishment strategies to determine time line and quantities. Parvadi's key objective is to strike a balance between ensuring efficient inventory available to meet customer needs and minimizing excess inventory to avoid unnecessary costs. Of course, all this inventory has to be moved around, and that's where transportation comes in. This involves moving goods from suppliers to customers and sometimes back from the customer.

Parvadi works to optimize transportation operations by analyzing transportation costs, selecting appropriate carriers, optimizing routes, and monitoring transportation performance matrix. For instance, can we pick up some of the customer's returns after dropping the next order. The products in inventory are typically made up of many different raw materials and packaging and procurement involves sourcing these from suppliers. Parvadi works with suppliers to source everything her organization needs to make its products. She evaluates supplier capabilities, negotiates contracts, defines optimal quantities including transportation and storage capacity, manages relationships and ensures the timely delivery of materials. And then, of course, there's manufacturing, which involves transforming all the raw materials into a finished product. Parvadi collaborates with production teams to plan and optimize manufacturing processes. Since demand is a key variable in this activity, she needs to make sure the information is flowing properly, new requirements are accounted for, and there is capacity to support it. She also coordinates production schedules, monitors inventory levels, and ensures efficient utilization of resources.

A key step in getting this product to customers is warehousing and distribution. Warehousing includes storing and managing inventory and distribution centers or warehouses. Parvadi gets involved in supporting activities that drive optimization of warehouse operations by providing clear information and analyzing storage capacities, layout designs, inventory accuracy, and order fulfillment processes and then distribution, which focuses on getting finished goods from warehouses to customers. Parvadi contributes by analyzing and comparing customer expectations versus current distribution networks. She evaluates transportation costs, optimizing delivery routes, and monitoring distribution performance metrics. She also collaborates with logistic teams to ensure timely and cost effective distribution of customer orders. Throughout this entire process, project management is vital. This involves planning, organizing, and executing supply chain projects to achieve objectives related to the improvement of business operations. Parvadi may be involved in project management as a key stakeholder that can assist in project planning.

Defining project scope, setting supporting timelines, identifying other key resources, and monitoring project progress and its effect on the overall supply chain strategy. As I'm sure you're aware, information technology plays a crucial role in supporting supply chain operations through the use of software, data analysis tools, and even automation. Parvadi works with IT teams to evaluate and implement new technology and solutions. That means she is also responsible for analyzing system requirements, supporting system implementations and upgrades, and providing training to users on supply chain software applications.

A complete circle and all of these components of the supply chain process have one common focus, customer service, which means meeting customer requirements and their expectations. As well as providing a satisfactory experience throughout the order fulfillment process. Parvadi contributes by providing clear and precise communication, as well as monitoring key performance indicators related to customer satisfaction, and identifying areas for improvement. She also analyzes customer service metrics, identifies trends, and makes recommendations to improve overall customer satisfaction and loyalty. There's a lot of work to do in the role of an analyst, but Parvadi loves making an impact in every aspect of the supply chain. In the rest of this lesson, you'll look more closely at each of these components, and your role in them. Enjoy, and I think it's time for Parvadi and me to get some lunch.

#### Supply chain inventory and planning

Now that you have an introduction to the supply chain process, it's time to get to know its components in more detail. By the end of this video, you will be able to define supply chain inventory and planning, explain its importance, and identify the supply chain analyst role in inventory planning. Supply chain inventory refers to the finished goods, raw materials and components such as packaging and accessories held by suppliers, manufacturing facilities and distribution centers throughout the supply chain process. These organizations strive to maintain the optimal amount of inventory on hand to support customer demand and ensure availability of products when needed. Despite uncontrollable variables they sometimes face. Supply chain planning involves the management and optimization of this inventory. So, planning helps organizations ensure the right products are available at the right time and in the right quantity throughout the supply chain network. And keep this in mind all these companies want to minimize their costs while maximizing operational efficiency. And planning, helps achieve these goals too. As you can imagine, inventory planning is crucial.

Let's look at some of the reasons why. First, accurate inventory planning ensures that products are available to meet customer demand right when they need it. It helps prevent backorders, delays and out of stock situations referred to as stockouts. By meeting customer demand, organizations also help increase customer satisfaction and loyalty. And in some cases, an organization might face penalties determined by the customer if their service falls below an expected and agreed upon value. For instance, customer ABC expects their orders to be complete 97% of the time and that at least 80% of these orders arrive on time, think about it. There are some significant costs associated with having excess inventory, such as storage, obsolescence and cost for holding this inventory. These costs include lost sales because customers might go to other companies or postpone their purchases, which means the organization loses out on revenue. It also affects customer satisfaction because stock outs can make customers frustrated and disappointed. Plus, we might face penalties because we couldn't meet order deadlines, to restock quickly we might have to make rush orders, which means spending more money. And let's not forget that stock outs could force us to use faster and more expensive shipping methods, so, effective inventory planning can help minimize all these costs. Another reason inventory planning is important is because it can help optimize working capital. Excess inventory ties up valuable financial resources, and inadequate inventory can hinder operations. So it's important to understand the perfect balance between serving customers and having too much product on hand to free up capital for other investments.

Inventory planning aims to achieve optimal inventory levels. One more reason for effective inventory planning is to streamline operations. Planning helps ensure a steady flow of materials through the supply chain, minimizes production disruptions, and supports timely order fulfillment. In turn, this improves customer service and satisfaction by ensuring products are readily available. Let's look at two fictitious companies and how they manage inventory and planning. Techietime Gadgets is a global provider of handheld gaming devices and smart home products. They employ a sophisticated inventory management system to help meet customer demand. They maintain a strategic inventory buffer at various distribution centers to ensure quick order fulfillment, and they plan production schedules to optimize stock levels, reduce stock outs, and minimize excess inventory. Their supply chain leverages advanced technology.

Harmony Furnishings produces beautiful custom handcrafted furniture designs for a limited number of customers. By collaborating closely with customers, they initiate production only after receiving confirmed orders, thereby reducing the need for excess inventory. Their inventory management focuses on sourcing and stocking raw materials efficiently to meet demand while minimizing waste. With a personalized planning process, Harmony Furnishings optimizes production timelines, ensuring that each handcrafted piece is delivered to customers within agreed upon lead times. These two companies showcase distinct inventory and planning approaches based on their product characteristics, market reach and customer demands. So what does inventory planning mean to you as a supply chain analyst? Well, you are a vital part of the process. In your role, you will leverage lots of data, statistical models and other tools to analyze historical sales data, market trends and more to accurately forecast demand. You'll also collaborate with other teams to understand market dynamics, identify key drivers that impact inventory, and use your business acumen to bring all of it together. This contributes to effective decision making in inventory management.

What data do you look at for inventory planning? You'll consider lead time, which refers to the time taken from placing an order to receiving the inventory, demand variability, which refers to the fluctuation in customer demand over time, customer service levels and costs, to name a few. You'll also assess inventory performance metrics, monitor stock levels, and analyze demand patterns to identify areas for improvement that may need more attention due to their potential risks. Then you'll use your keen analytical skills and stellar business acumen to help develop inventory management strategies and inventory policy for that specific segment, customer and time of the year.

As a data analyst, you'll also work closely with many other stakeholders throughout the supply chain, such as customers and suppliers, to ensure alignment of inventory planning activities. You're in insights and recommendations here will affect inventory levels, forecast accuracy, stock outs and performance throughout the supply chain. By implementing inventory planning in your role as a supply chain analyst, you'll help the organization work toward achieving the KPIs and the operational excellence that drives efficiency and supports profits. Sounds exciting, you'll have quite an impact, that's for sure.

#### Supply chain transportation and customer service

By the end of this video, you will be able to define supply chain transportation and customer service, explain the importance of them on supply chain management, and identify the supply chain analyst's role in supply chain transportation and customer service. Just think about it. From the massive container ships that traverse the oceans to the intricate web of planes, trains, and trucks that criss cross the continents, transportation plays an incredible role in the supply chain. Achieving excellent customer service is all about getting these goods to the right place at the right time, every single time. We'll start with transportation, which involves tasks such as selecting transportation modes, route planning, carrier management, and execution of transportation activities to ensure efficient and timely delivery of products. Distribution and warehouse operations are also involved in transportation because they focus on moving and storing goods within a warehouse or a distribution center.

Let's see why transportation is so important to the supply chain. First, properly planned and well executed transportation helps ensure timely delivery, which is essential to meeting customer requirements and expectations, fulfilling orders, and maintaining customer satisfaction. Obviously, cost efficiency is a huge focus with transportation, so optimizing related activities can help reduce expenses such as freight charges, fuel costs, and warehousing expenses. Overseeing factors such as route optimization, vehicle utilization, fuel efficiency, technology, and automation, maintenance, and asset management can also help achieve cost efficiency. Next up is supply chain integration, or connecting various stages of the supply chain. Transportation is a crucial link to ensuring the seamless movement of goods between suppliers, manufacturers, distribution centers, and then customers. It's important that all stakeholders in the supply chain collaborate to align transportation operations. To optimize operations, there must be coordination that helps in anticipating demand, coordinating shipments, and understanding customer requirements.

Finally, transportation enables organizations to expand their market reach so they can serve customers in local communities and all over the world. Having access to reliable transportation networks helps organizations reach new markets, tap into additional customer segments, and support growth strategies. Additionally, a focus on sustainable transportation practices with these networks can contribute to both environmental and operational sustainability. Let's see how two different companies manage transportation. TechyTime gadgets, a global provider of handheld gaming devices and smart home products, delivers products to customers worldwide. For international shipments and long distances they partner with logistics providers and often rely on air freight for speed and efficiency. For regional and domestic distribution, they use a mix of road transport, such as trains, trucks, and couriers, that allow them to seamlessly connect production facilities with distribution centers and retail outlets.

Harmony Furnishings produces custom handcrafted furniture and uses a more localized and personalized approach to deliver products to customers in a limited geographical area. They mostly rely on road transport and schedule deliveries based on customer preference and route optimization. Each company tailors its transportation methods to align with their business scope, market reach, and customer needs. I've mentioned customer service a few times, but let's talk about what that entails and revisit its importance. Supply chain customer service includes any activities aimed at managing, meeting, and exceeding customer expectations throughout the supply chain. That means providing prompt, accurate, personalized service to address their questions, resolve their issues, and collaborate in the development of sustainable operating models. Offering exceptional customer service is important because it ensures customer satisfaction and loyalty. It also serves as a competitive differentiator by creating a positive brand image. By delivering outstanding customer service, organizations encourage repeat business from satisfied customers who tend to spend more money and tell other potential customers about their experiences driving organic growth. Part of providing this level of customer service is understanding customers' unique business needs, preferences, requirements, and concerns so an organization can tailor offerings and solutions. Maintaining strong customer relationships can make or break an organization and their supply chain.

Another part of providing top-notch customer service is problem resolution and conflict management. Completing these two activities on a timely basis demonstrates a commitment to customer satisfaction and has the potential to generate new business opportunities. It's important to understand that there will be problems and that effective problem resolution involves actively listening to customers, empathizing with their concerns, and providing appropriate alternatives and options to solve problems which showcases flexibility and commitment. Now, what does this all mean to you? Let's talk about your role as a supply chain analyst in transportation. As a supply chain analyst, you'll be involved in several activities. The first of which is transportation planning. You'll study transportation requirements and consider different factors such as delivery lead times and capacity to develop transportation plans and identify optimal transportation modes and routes. You'll use scenario planning to anticipate and evaluate potential situations. Analysis of potential problems, such as disruptions and market fluctuations helps you develop contingency plans to mitigate risks which enables you and your team to react effectively, minimizing the impact on transportation operations. Supply chain analysts also evaluate carriers and provide inputs to management on which carriers to use based on their capabilities, service levels, reliability, and cost effectiveness.

It's also important to explore opportunities for freight consolidation, or combining multiple shipments into a single load to optimize transportation capacity and reduce costs. This may include considering intercompany transfers and customer returns as part of that consolidation. As a data analyst, you'll leverage technologies and analytics to monitor transportation costs and benchmark these against the defined operation metrics as well as the industry standards. Then you'll look for root causes and potential cost-saving opportunities, as well as new strategies for optimizing expenses. You'll also use KPIs, or key performance indicators to track transportation performance metrics such as on-time delivery, transit time, and carrier performance. Then you can conduct a root cause analysis to understand issues, identify bottlenecks and inefficiencies, and improve operations in collaboration with internal and external stakeholders.

If all of those responsibilities aren't enough to get you excited, let's talk about what the supply chain analyst does related to customer service. First, you'll perform customer service performance analysis looking at metrics and KPIs, monitoring performance, and identifying trends, all of which help you understand behaviors and provide insights into improving and optimizing customer service processes. You'll also collaborate closely with the demand planning team to ensure customer purchases are considered for the overall supply chain requirements. By incorporating demand planning insights, you can enhance customer service and fulfillment rates, ultimately resulting in improved customer satisfaction. The supply chain analyst also has a hand in order management and tracking by collaborating with various teams to ensure accurate order processing, monitoring status of the orders, tracking shipments, and addressing any delays. You may also be involved in training customer service teams, helping them understand supply chain dynamics. You can also help align customer service strategies and goals with other teams such as sales and marketing. I know you're hearing about lots of analysis and planning tasks that you know nothing about yet but don't worry, you'll learn how to do all of this later in the program. For now, just realize that your future role in supply chain analytics has amazing potential for both you and the organizations you work with.

#### Supply chain procurement, manufacturing, warehousing and distribution

You've been introduced to the different gears of the supply chain machine, and in this video, we'll continue exploring those gears. By the end of this video, you will be able to define supply chain procurement, manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution. You'll also be able to explain their importance on supply chain management, and identify the supply chain analysts role in these areas. From procuring the finest materials, to manufacturing them into finished products, from optimizing warehousing operations, to orchestrating efficient distribution networks, every step plays a crucial role in getting products into the hands of consumers.

Let's define a few of these components first. Procurement refers to the process of sourcing, selecting, and acquiring all the goods, services, or raw materials from suppliers that you need to create a product. Procurement activities include identifying suppliers, negotiating, purchasing, and managing the supplier contracts.

Manufacturing refers to the process of transforming all those materials into a finished product, and includes activities such as production planning and scheduling, quality control, and inventory management of both raw materials and finished goods, before these are transferred to the storage facility.

Warehousing and distribution refers to managing storage facilities and the movement of those products to next steps in the supply chain network. This includes handling both inbound and outbound products. Inbound products may be transferred from other locations, received from suppliers, or even include customer returns. On the other hand, outbound products are those that are sent to customers or other facilities within the supply chain network. Warehousing and distribution includes activities such as receiving the products at the warehouse, storing them, and then picking, packing, and shipping them to fulfill customer orders.

Now let's look at the importance of those components, starting with procurement. During procurement, organizations focus on selecting a diversified group of high quality suppliers that meet the organization's standards, specifications, and requirements for demand and quality. There are also many different regulations to consider, such as competitive law in the UK. Then both sides collaborate closely, look for cost savings through volume discounts and favorable terms, and access each other's expertise for process improvement, all with an eye for ensuring a consistent supply of goods. Also, by negotiating mutually favorable pricing terms and conditions with their suppliers, organizations can keep costs lower while keeping a sustainable business relationship. Procurement is also an important part of quality assurance. Once the materials are in, organizations have quality control measures in place to keep things in check throughout manufacturing. Inspections, tests, and careful monitoring help catch any issues early on. If an organization gets high quality materials and has thorough quality control measures to meet product quality standards, they can reduce the risk of product defects that could impact customer dissatisfaction.

Next, why are manufacturing processes important to the supply chain? Well, first it's all about product availability. Organizations need efficient manufacturing processes to get their product out to meet customer demand, which in turn increases customer satisfaction, and brand loyalty. But too much product is not good either. We need the right amount accounting for variability, and the organization's tolerance to risk. When manufacturing all that product, an organization has an opportunity to reduce manufacturing costs, minimize waste, and improve profitability by using streamlined processes, and optimizing resource utilization. Quality control during manufacturing includes implementing measures that can address potential defects. This happens by conducting quality control measures systematically.

The final purpose is to deliver high quality products that improve customer trust, minimize returns, and keep the supply chain reliable. Organizations also have the opportunity to minimize production lead time, and improve responsiveness through implementing lean manufacturing principles, and efficient production scheduling. By integrating new technologies and processes in their manufacturing process, organizations can continue to innovate, be flexible, and offer differentiated products to the market, supporting their growth goals. No organization wants its products gathering dust on a warehouse shelf, or facing shipping delays, so effective and efficient warehousing and distribution practices help avoid this nightmare.

First, conducting efficient warehouse product layout, strategically allocating products throughout the organization's warehouses, placing those warehouses in optimal locations, and controlling inbound and outbound movements, allow organizations to maintain appropriate flow of inventory, minimize stockouts or excess inventory, and reduce risk of delays and disruptions. These practices, in parallel to having efficient operations, help ensure customer satisfaction and loyalty, by picking, packing, and consistently delivering the products on time.

Finally, the health of the inventory has a direct impact on upstream decisions related to production planning and future demand forecasting. It serves as a valuable feedback loop within the supply chain network. As you can see, warehousing and distribution operations can have a real impact on supply chain optimization. Now, the question you've all been waiting for, what does this all mean for you, the budding supply chain analyst? First, you'll be helping with procurement by evaluating and selecting the most appropriate suppliers to work with. Then you'll do some analysis that can help with negotiations to get the best pricing and terms in supplier contracts. It's key to remember that building a long-term relationship with suppliers requires mutual benefit and cooperation. You'll also use some pretty cool technology, such as analysis tools and tracking software, to monitor supplier performance against KPIs, study procurement data, identify trends, streamline processes, build relationships, evaluate behaviors, and support decision-making by identifying areas for improvement.

By identifying things such as supply disruptions, quality issues, and regulatory compliance, and developing risk mitigation strategies and contingency plans, to address risks before and while they happen. How will you support manufacturing? You'll participate in production planning to optimize production schedules, capacity utilization, and resource allocation. You'll also track and analyze performance metrics such as production output, cycle, time, yield, and more. These will help you identify trends, deviations, and areas for improvement. Because you understand that growth only happens with continuous improvement, you'll help identify opportunities for process optimization, waste reduction, and productivity, and then drive those ongoing initiatives to enhance manufacturing efficiency, to meet your inventory levels, and support your demand.

Collaboration continues during manufacturing, and you might work with sales and marketing, demand planning, procurement and logistics teams to ensure smooth integration in all supply chain functions. You'll also collaborate in the assessment and implementation of data analytics tools to monitor production performance, automate data collection, and support real-time decision-making. These collaborative efforts aim to maintain a healthy inventory, and promote sustainable practices within the supply chain, and you'll help with risk management by communicating potential disruptions and quality issues that could impact product, and ultimately your customers. Finally, for warehousing and distribution, you may analyze storage requirements, product flow, and product characteristics on an ongoing basis, to design the warehouse layout, bidding strategies, and storage configurations that meet the ever changing needs of your customer demand. Then you can analyze KPIs related to warehousing and distribution, and track metrics such as order cycle time, order accuracy, and picking productivity, to develop action plans for any identified areas for improvement.

These metrics provide valuable insights into the performance of your warehousing and distribution operations. You may also get involved with inventory optimization by exploring alternative strategies such as just-in-time delivery management, vendor managed inventory, or consignment inventory arrangements. You'll learn more about these later in the program. You'll likely evaluate and deploy warehouse management systems, barcode scanning systems, and other automation tools to streamline processes, improve data accuracy, and enhance operational efficiency. Finally, you'll play a crucial role in project management, overseeing technology initiatives, coordinating with stakeholders, ensuring smooth implementation, and driving adoption of digital solutions. From procurement to distribution, and everything in-between, there's never a dull moment in the life of a supply chain analyst.

#### Project management and IT

By the end of this video, you will be able to define supply chain project management and IT or information technology. Explain their importance on supply chain management, and identify the supply chain analyst role in supply chain project management and IT. Are you ready to unlock the secrets and superpowers that the dynamic duo of project management and information technology can use to achieve seamless operations, accelerated growth, and unparalleled customer satisfaction in the magical realm of the supply chain? Okay, yeah, that may be a bit dramatic, but the strategic use of project management and IT really can help a supply chain analyst show off their abilities and positively impact their organization. Let's see how. We'll start with project management, which includes implementing new systems and technologies, improving existing processes. Introducing new technologies, really anything that involves planning, executing, and controlling activities that aim to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of supply chain operations.

As a supply chain analyst, you can contribute to project management during the design, development, deployment, and implementation of a project. It starts by collaborating with other stakeholders to define requirements, project objectives, scope, deliverables, and timelines. During this initial design stage, you need to identify and engage key users, support project teams, and provide feedback on development of project plans and right resources for the project. Throughout the remaining stages of a project, you'll communicate with the team and stakeholders to ensure alignment, communicate progress, validate results, and manage expectations. You should evaluate the results and capture feedback from stakeholders and end users to integrate the project output into the existing supply chain processes. Now, let's look at information technology or IT, and the pivotal role it plays in evolving supply chain management.

IT systems build the infrastructure to facilitate data collection, which in turn enables analysis and decision making, as well as streamlined communication and collaboration among supply chain stakeholders. Your role as a supply chain analyst in IT includes actively contributing to the solution design stage. Bringing your understanding of the business requirements and the potential opportunities to help you envision innovative solutions. You may also help develop conceptual models and design solutions for the supply chain network. During the implementation of solutions such as enterprise resource planning systems, warehouse management systems, or transportation management systems. You will collaborate with the IT teams to provide functional requirements and ensure successful system deployment, this will also include training to use the solutions. You'll likely be involved in technology evaluation too. You may help identify opportunities where technology can provide support to operations and even automate tasks. You could be brought in to evaluate emerging technologies and assess their potential benefits for your current supply chain operations and conduct cost benefit analysis so you can make appropriate recommendations. So, the supply chain analyst really does play a critical role in project management and IT initiatives within supply chain management. Contributing to identifying opportunities as well as to the design, development, deployment, and implementation of projects, optimization of processes, and leveraging technology for improved supply chain performance. Are you ready to put on your superhero cape and conquer the supply chain world? Not so fast. There's plenty more to learn.

##### Logistics

In the world of supply chain, a product’s journey often involves multiple transportation modes, customs regulations, and ports of entry in regions around the globe. Logistics includes the planning, implementation, and management of this journey to ensure the smooth movement of products from suppliers all the way to consumers.

At the heart of logistics lies the supply chain analyst, who helps navigate any complexities, optimizes operations, and ensures a seamless flow with multiple logistical strategies. Let’s take a peek into the world of logistics and the contributions of supply chain analysts.

**Transportation**

There are multiple modes of transportation that may be included in supply chain logistics. Let’s see when and why each mode is used.

**Road transportation**: Trucks and vans are commonly used for transporting goods over short to medium distances within a country. They offer flexibility and direct delivery options. Less-than-truckload (LTL) and full truckload (FTL) shipping are fundamental concepts in road transportation. These terms are frequently used to describe two distinct approaches to shipping goods by road:

* LTL shipping involves combining smaller shipments from multiple shippers into a single truckload. This approach maximizes truck capacity and cost efficiency by sharing resources. LTL works well for shipping smaller quantities of goods, optimizing space, and reducing costs for each shipper.

* FTL shipping involves using an entire truck to transport goods from a single shipper. This is ideal when a shipper has enough goods to fill an entire truck. FTL shipments offer faster transit times and reduce the risk of handling at multiple stops, ensuring fewer opportunities for damage. They are also more expensive!

Rail transportation: Trains are efficient for long-distance transportation of bulk goods, such as raw materials and heavy equipment.

Air transportation: Air cargo is ideal for expedited delivery of high-value and perishable goods, ensuring quick cross-border shipments.

Sea transportation: Ships handle large volumes of goods for international trade, especially bulk commodities and containerized cargo.

Courier and parcel services: Express delivery services offer fast delivery options for smaller shipments, catering to the growing demand for e-commerce and also serving major organizations.

Intermodal transportation: This refers to the movement of goods using multiple modes of transportation, such as trucks, trains, ships, and airplanes, using a single, standardized container or trailer that remains sealed throughout its journey. For example, containers of goods might be transported by truck to a rail yard, loaded onto a train for the long-haul portion of the journey, and then transferred back to a truck for the final delivery. This streamlined process reduces the need for constant unloading and reloading. In addition, it leverages the strength of the different transportation modes to achieve an efficient, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly transfer of goods.

Multimodal transportation: This method also involves the use of multiple modes of transportation, but it involves the use of different containers or packaging for each mode of transport. A single transportation provider or logistics company typically manages the entire journey, ensuring seamless coordination between various modes. For example, goods might be transported by truck to a port, loaded onto cargo containers on a ship for an ocean voyage, and then transferred from the cargo containers onto another truck for the final delivery. The key difference with intermodal lies in contracting and wether the cargo is containerized.

**Customs Clearance**

Customs clearance is a key component of logistics and involves complying with import and export regulations, tariffs, and documentation required by customs authorities in different countries. By navigating the nuances of this process, supply chain analysts help ensure smooth cross-border movement of goods while avoiding delays and penalties caused by non-compliance. Analysts should have a basic yet comprehensive understanding of customs complexities to optimize cross-border logistics, cultivate compliance-driven strategies, and ultimately strengthen the resilience of global supply chains. Building strong relationships with customs brokers and organizations specialized in these activities is also vital. This knowledge and collaboration ensures smoother international trade operations, reduces delays, and enhances  supply chain robustness.

**Ports of Entry**

A port of entry is a location, typically a harbor or an airport, where goods enter a country. It's a critical point in logistics because it's where customs procedures, inspections, and duties are often handled. Efficient management of ports of entry is vital to prevent congestion, streamline inspections, and facilitate timely cargo release. This management requires supply chain analysts to have a broad but complete understanding of customs, regulatory compliance, and operational processes for countries in which they do business. With this knowledge, analysts can plan accordingly, manage efficient supply chain strategies, navigate cross-border challenges, and optimize the movement of goods through these critical entry points.

**Regional Logistics**

Logistics vary greatly based on the regions in which a supply chain operates.

* United States: Logistics in the US is influenced by the vast geographical size of the country and benefits from well-developed road and rail networks and major ports along both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. Cross-country transportation and intermodal connections are significant due to the diverse industries and consumer markets across the US. Because bordering countries Mexico and Canada are key trade partners, supply chain analysts should have a clear understanding of the complexities of these cross-border logistics. If you’re an analyst in North America, be sure to learn more about the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA)
, which influences supply chain strategies and includes regulations and customs procedures in place.

* Australia and South-Pacific: Vast distances, low national population densities yet with high urban densities, and dramatically different climatic environments need to be understood to effectively manage service times and expectations on sourcing and delivery.

* Asia: Growing economies with extensive centers of manufacturing across all sectors contribute to high volumes of goods for transport into, within, and out of the region. Efficient logistics are critical due to the vast distances and interdependencies of components that input into finished goods.

* Europe:  Benefits exist due to harmonised or highly similar regulations on many aspects of transport and manufacturing. Note Europe is greater than the 27 countries in the European Union (EU), countries outside the EU, including the United Kingdom, Norway, and Switzerland make their own laws and regulations affecting cross border trade.  

* Middle East: The Middle East is a major logistics hub due to its strategic location connecting Asia, Europe, and Africa. Their investment in modern infrastructure and transportation facilities is shaping the Middle East into a trans-shipment center—or a place where goods can easily be imported and exported and transferred from one ship onto another to complete their journey to another destination.

* Africa: Logistics in Africa is as diverse as the continent, covering a vast assortment of goods … from agricultural products of the Nile to the bulk commodities of South Africa to energy resources of west Africa. Understanding how to integrate local supply chains into global supply chains is a key to success in Africa.

* South and Central America: There are challenges though due to layers of regulation on taxation, product specifications, and access to infrastructure. Benefits of the Mercosur trade block encourage intra region trade in those countries which are members.

**Your Role in Logistics**

Supply chain analysts play an important role in logistics. Here’s how:

* Data analysis: Analysts use data to gain insights into supply chain operations; monitor transportation routes, optimize delivery schedules, and identify inefficiencies.

* Demand forecasting: Analysts use insights from historical data, market trends, and predictive models to anticipate demand fluctuations, which helps them plan transportation to support inventory levels to prevent overstock or stockouts.

* Cost optimization: Analysts evaluate transportation costs, looking for opportunities to reduce expenses by means such as using different shipping methods, carriers, and transportation modes while maintaining high service quality.

* Risk management: Analysts assess, communicate, and manage potential disruptions, such as strikes, natural disasters, or geopolitical events that could impact logistics operations.

* Performance metrics: Analysts track key performance indicators (KPIs) like on-time delivery, transportation costs, and lead times to evaluate logistics effectiveness.

* Technology integration: Analysts explore and integrate technological solutions like transportation management systems (TMS), route optimization software, and real-time tracking tools to enhance logistics efficiency and visibility.

* Collaboration: Analysts collaborate with cross-functional teams including procurement, production, and customer service to align logistics strategies with broader supply chain goals.

* Continuous improvement: Analysts drive continuous improvement initiatives by monitoring key performance indicators (KPIs) such as delivery accuracy, transit times, and transportation costs. They use these metrics to identify trends and initiate corrective actions.

As you can see, in the world of supply chain, logistics serves as the key component that coordinates diverse modes of transportation, customs processes, and regional considerations. As a supply chain analyst, you’ll be deeply involved in managing logistics, analyzing data, forecasting, looking for cost optimization opportunities, managing risk, and constantly tracking performance to ensure efficient and effective movement of products across the globe. The world is a big place, and you’ll find out a lot more about it through logistics management!
